Okay,
guys.
And welcome back.
Never gonna have a look at this ad Common tree code,
which we can see is really,
really,
really quite considerable.
But essentially,
if we look at what we've actually done,
if we ignore the format in aspects,
what we'll actually done is we written text to sell a one text a three,
a four and a five.
So the first thing I'm gonna do it's split this out into its component parts.
So we have a range of one dot Select on with the active cells formula formula.
I want to see you want on,
right?
The text.
That cell A one.
I think we sorted the formatting.
I'm not out a little bit later.
Then we had sell a three here,
sell a full on somewhere down here,
we'll have range a five.
OK,
so far,
so good.
So let's have a look at range one.
First on.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna build the concussion ated strings to populate the data,
and then we'll come back and have a look at how we apply the format in in a little while.
Okay,
So the first thing that we can see here is that we have range 81 Select on with the active
cell doctor formula are one C one.
We know this isn't a formula.
It's just a value.
So we can get rid of all of that and just replace it with the word value.
Because what we want to do is say range a ones value property is going to say month match
the same monthly report,
shouldn't it?
Monthly report for month year North ERN region and you'll remember the things in upper case
are the things that we need to read at Runtime.
So it's completely dynamic.
Now we have three elements here.
We have the month,
we have the year and we have north on.
What we need to do is set up three local variables and they're going to be local because
we're not going to use them anywhere other than this in this ad commentary section.
So it's gonna portia second,
declare the variables.
Okay,
there we go.
So we now have my month,
our string,
which you're gonna hold the name of the month,
my year on my region.
Now you'll remember that all of this data is contained in our source sheet.
So what we're gonna do for now is we're going to steal that line of code from our day to
capture rooting up here that says my source sheet equals the active sheet dot name.
So I'm just gonna come back down here.
Where are we?
Here we go.
I'm just gonna put that there will delete it little weight.
And when we had this to the run order,
But for now,
we need to capture the name off the source sheet.
And they're what we need to do is build lines of code to populate my month,
my year on my region.
So the first thing we're gonna do is say my month equals and there's a man that's in lower
case because declared it here or capitalize automatically on what we're going to say is
sheets because this is the hierarchy.
Remember,
we have to specify which sheet toe look at before we have.
We specify which range to look at.
So this is going to be my source sheet.
Adults range open brackets open quotes on.
We can see that that lives at B three.
So we're gonna say be three close quotes close that dot value.
And we may as well do this for the others as well,
while we're here.
So my month equals that my year equals that on my region equals that.
Okay,
so let's just step through that code and see what it say So bomb,
bomb,
bomb.
So my month equals no.
One No.
1 2016 which is precisely what it say's here.
Know exactly what we're looking at.
My year will be exactly the same in my region.
It's just looking at the wrong sell.
What we actually want to do is pick the first cell or any of these cells where we have the
region specifies.
That's actually going to be C seven in this instance.
Soc seventh.
So it's stop stepped through and let's have a look at that rumble bump.
So my region north fantastic.
We have the region sorted There will go through these in reverse order because there is a V
be a function called year.
So before the sheets expression where we tell it where to look on my year,
we're going to just add the word year and you can see the argument it's looking for is a
date.
Now the date lives in sheets.
My source sheet range B three don't value.
That is our argument.
So I'm just going to stop.
No,
I go all the way through that and you can see that.
Now we have year 2000 and 16 on the region is north.
So we have two out of three completed now a slight complication with mine month.
What we need to do is call the worksheet function text on,
then specify that we want it returned as a month in its long form.
So because of the hierarchy,
what we're gonna have to say is application hopefully of type that right does work sheets
function,
Dr Text,
open brackets.
And now we're into the arguments were going to do that for Southee arguments hit space on
one score and hit end Zach Tabin and then we can see that.
So here is our arguments on what we need to do at the end is hit the comma,
hit the quotes four EMS,
and that should return that in long form.
So it should say January.
So let's just step through that bump,
bump,
bump.
So most know saves January.
My essays 2016 in my region saves north.
So they are all of our variables captured?
No.
What we need to do is build those into a string.
I'm just gonna tempt those in.
So we know that's part of the code,
this one we're going to delete later.
So just come out and say still eat later because we're already gonna capture the source
sheet name in the data capture.
So there,
we need to build this into its component parts.
So what I'm gonna do It's a month report for Andi Space and I'm gonna hit quotes on Gonna
hit on D l I'm gonna hit space now here.
I'm gonna say my months and I want to space Between the my month and the my year So quotes
,
space quotes on and on And even I'm gonna delete that on I'm gonna hit an underscore and
hit Enter I know it will And here we have my year on Between my year on the word Northern
What I want is another space on the same island Quotes space quote Onda And here we go my
region and I can delete the word north Andi and I don't want to space here.
Abella print Andi on those style.
I don't want to.
Space X.
I want the urn attacked immediately onto the my region on.
That should just about do us now because we're in the sore.
She What we're gonna need to do is run this part of the code and select new sheet before we
get to hear.
So let's just step through that code.
Bom bom bom bom bom.
We can see we have my month.
You can see we have my year and we can see we have my region now so it doesn't pace across
this one.
I'm going to select a new sheet and hit that.
So let's just hit F eight so month report for January 2016 Northern region.
Fantastic.
Okay.
I'll see you in the next lecture where we'll have a look at the rest of them.
I'll see you.
That